Blog post about recent work re country codes dataset. (#8)
datahubio/blog: updating-the-country-codes-open-dataset-a-major-overhaul.md

---
title: "Updating the Country Codes Open Dataset: A Major Overhaul"
date: 2024-10-01
authors: ["Anuar Ustayev"]
---

> We are excited to share the latest updates on our open dataset, `country-codes`. Over time, this dataset had become outdated, and the underlying codebase required a significant overhaul. To ensure it remains reliable and up-to-date, we embarked on a comprehensive update, fixing the structure and implementing new processes for regular maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are excited to share the latest updates on our open dataset, `country-codes`. Over time, this dataset had become outdated, and the underlying codebase required a significant overhaul. To ensure it remains reliable and up-to-date, we embarked on a comprehensive update, restructuring the codebase and implementing new processes for regular maintenance.
```

## **Why the Update?**

The `country-codes` dataset is an essential resource for many data enthusiasts and developers. However, it had not been actively maintained, resulting in outdated information and obsolete scripts. It became clear that a significant restructuring was necessary to bring the dataset back to life and make it a valuable, up-to-date resource once more.

## **Key Updates and Improvements**

> ### **1. Codebase Structure Fix**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### **1. Codebase Restructuring**
```

### **4. Automating with GitHub Actions**

To maintain the dataset effectively, we implemented a monthly cron job using GitHub Actions. This automation will ensure that the dataset is regularly checked and updated, helping to keep it accurate and up-to-date without manual intervention. Moving to GitHub Actions also aligns with our current CI/CD practices.

### **5. Link Updates**

Links throughout the project were reviewed and updated. This ensures that documentation, references, and resource files are correctly linked and accessible, providing a seamless experience for users and contributors.

### **6. Requirements File Update**

The `requirements.txt` file was updated to ensure compatibility with the latest versions of dependencies. This helps in maintaining a stable environment and reduces the risk of issues due to outdated libraries.

### **7. Resolving Issues and Cleaning Up**

Finally, we took the time to address the most recent issues reported by users. Outdated or irrelevant issues were closed, allowing us to focus on meaningful improvements. This cleanup not only helps keep our issue tracker relevant but also provides a clearer picture of what work is left to be done.

> ## **What’s Next?**

Reviewer: It's rather a summary than "what's next" i think
